Advantages of DBMS
==================

This chapter first learn about drawbacks of file system. Why file system not enough for storing data. Then learn about advantages and disadvantages of dbms. Here table of content : 

- **[Drawbacks of File System](#drawbacks-of-file-system)**
- [Advantage of DBMS over File System](#advantage-of-dbms-over-file-system)
- [Disadvantages of DBMS](#disadvantages-of-dbms)

## Drawbacks of File System
- **Data redundancy :** First problem is data redundancy. Data redundancy means duplication of data. It often leads to higher storage costs and poor access time. Let example : stored the same student data twice. Here miss use the storage. 
- **Data Inconsistency :** Data redundancy make the data inconsistency.
- **Data Isolation :** Store the data in various files create data isolation. Because files may be in different formats, writing new applicaitons programs to retrieve the appropiate data is difficult.
- **Dependency on Application Programs :** Store the data in file system create dependency on various type of application programs. 
- **Atomicity Issues :** Atomicity of a transaction means "All or Nothing". In other word, Either all operation done or not. 
- **Data Security :** Apply data security in file system is more difficult than DBMS.

## Advantage of DBMS over File System
- **No Redundant Data :** In  here redundancy removed by data normalization system. In that case saves the storage and improves access time.
- **Data Consistency and Integrity :** The root cause of data inconsistency is redundant. So there is no data redundant it means no data onsistency. 
- **Data Security :** It is easier to apply access constraints in database systems so that only authorized user is able to access the data.
- **Privacy :** DBMS has grand and revoke access feature. Which create limited data access. So that ensures who is accessing which data.
- **Easy Access to Data :** Here we can access data faster than file system.
- **Easy Recovery :** Database Systems keeps the backup of data so it is easier to do full recovery of lost data.
- **Flexible :** Database systems are more flexible than file processing systems. 

## Disadvantages of DBMS
- **Implementation :** Implementation DBMS is more difficult than file system.
- **Complexity :** Understand DBMS is more complex than file system.
- **Performance :** Some time database affect their performance for some applications.

<hr />
<br />

[< Introduction](./01.introduction.md) | [Basics](./basics.md) | [DBMS & RDMBS >](./03.dbms_and_rdbms.md)
-------------------------------------