Instance & Schema in DBMS
==========================

**Defination of Schema :** Design of a database is called the schema. Schema defines the attributes of tables in the database. Here example with students table : 

```bash
  Students Tables 
-------------------

Name    ID    Address   Contact
----    --    -------   -------

```

About schema :
- Schema represents the logical view of the database.
- Schema can be represented by diagram.
- Schema helps the database users to understand the relationship between data.

There are three types of schema : 
1. **[Physical Schema](#physical-schema)**
2. **[Logical Schema](#logical-schema)**
3. **[View Schema](#view-schema)**

### Physical Schema
Designing database at physical level called **physical schema**. Here descibed how the data stored in blocks of storage is described at this level.

### Logical Schema
Programmers and database administrators work at this level. Here described what type of data records get stored in data structures, however the internal details such as implenentation of data structures is hidden at this level. 

### View Schema
Deign of database at view level is called view Schema nothing else.

<hr />
<br />

## DBMS Instance
**Definition of instance :** The data stored in database at a particular moment of time is called instance of database. Database schema defines the attributes in tables and the value of attributes at a moment of time is called the instance of thet database. Here example with student table : 

```bash
  Students Tables 
-------------------

Name        ID      Address       Contact
--------    ----    -----------   -----------
Anonymo     1       Dhaka         01xxxxxxxxx
Alyath      2       Cumilla       01xxxxxxxxx
Sirius      3       Sylhet        01xxxxxxxxx

```

In this student table, Name, ID Address and contact called attributes of table. This table has 3 record. That's mean table has 3 instance. 

<hr />
<br />

[< Data Abstraction](./06.data_abstraction.md) | [Basics](./basics.md) | [DBMS Languages >](./08.dbms_languages.md)
---------------------------------------------