Keys in DBMS
============

There are some type keys use in dbms : 

<details>
    <summary>1. Primary Key</summary>

<br />

> 游릭 A primary is a column or set of columns in a table that uniquely identifies tuples (rows) in the table.

**The Characteristics of a primary key :**
1. Minimal.
2. Unique.
3. Not Null.
4. Not dependent on Time.
5. Easily Accessible.
6. Can have more than one attributes.


**Syntax to create primary key :**
```sql
CREATE TABLE table_name
(
  column_name1 datatype [ NULL | NOT NULL ],
  column_name2 datatype [ NULL | NOT NULL ],
  ...

  CONSTRAINT constraint_name PRIMARY KEY (column_nameX, column_nameY..)
);
```

**Example :**
```sql
CREATE TABLE STUDENTS
( stu_id int NOT NULL
  first_name VARCHAR(30) NOT NULL,
  last_name VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL,
  dob DATE,
  CONSTRAINT student_pk PRIMARY KEY (stu_id)
);
```

</details>


<details>
<summary>2. Super Key</summary>

> 游릭 A uper key is a set of one or more atributes (columns), which can uniquely indentify a row in table.
</details>

<details>
<summary>3. Candidate Key</summary>

> 游릭 Candidate keys are selected from the set of super keys, the only thing we take care while selecting candidate key is that the candidate key should not have any redundant attributes. (That's why it called minimal super key.)

> 游 A primary key is selected from the set of candidate keys.
</details>

<details>
<summary>4. Alternate Key</summary>

> 游릭 Out of all candidate keys, only one gets selected as primary key, remaining keys are known as alternate or secondary keys.

</details>

<details>
<summary>5. Composite Key</summary>

> 游릭 A key that consists of more than one attribute to uniquely identify rows (also known as record & tuples) in a table is called composite key.

</details>

<details>
<summary>6. Foreign Key</summary>

> 游릭 Foreing keys are the columns of a table that points to the primary key of another table. They act as a cross-reference between tables.
</details>


<hr />
<br />

### [< DBMS Relationals Calculus](./04.dbms_relations_calculus.md)
### [Relational Database](./relational_database.md)

### [Go back README](./../README.md)
--------------------------------------------